Now that you are refreshed on the blockchain framework,
let's enter the Ethereum world.
We'll use this section to cover some basic Ethereum terminology.
First, Ethereum is an open source,
programmable public blockchain platform.
It includes its own scripting language known as Solidity,
and has an entirely separate ecosystem of tools from what we've learned before.
These next terms I will go over are a huge part of what makes up this ecosystem.
It's important to understand the Etheruem Virtual Machine also known as EVM.
The EVM is capable of executing logic,
algorithm, and process data inputs.
Unlike its predecessors, Bitcoin,
where a user is given a set of predefined operations.
In a Ethereum world, a user is able to create their own operations.
These operations can vary in complexity,
which by design gives room for creating several decentralized applications,
including cryptocurrencies and tokens which we'll cover later in this course.
Next, one thing that really separates Ethereum from Bitcoin is that it's Turing Complete.
Turing Complete is a term given to any software that is able to
run code written by a dev or executed by an end user.
In a Ethereum, a developer can write an application using
a programming language call Solidity that is modeled after languages such as Python,
JavaScript, and submited to an EVM for execution.
In Bitcoin, there are limited ways to write applications,
only to store information.
As a developer, you'll use this to write what is known as a smart contract.
In fact, you'll be using this language very
soon in this course and for the upcoming project.
A smart contract is basically a contract written in code.
In a Ethereum, these are written to programmatically
enforce rules set up in a negotiation between two parties.
More specifically, a smart contract is also known as
an object on the Ethereum blockchain that contains EVM code functions.
Amongst many other things,
a smart contract can store data,
make decisions, interact with other contracts,
and send data, the currency of Ethereum.
These smart contracts will exist and be executable so long as the network exists.
Just like other blockchain technologies,
there is no one that owns this contract and no one can take it down, not even you.
A smart contract will only disappear if
it's programmed to self-destruct with a kill switch.
For this reason, having a kill switch is
a good practice when working with smart contracts.
As we mentioned, smart contracts are written in
adherence programming language which is known as Solidity.
This is a high level language for coding and deploying smart contracts.
It is not exactly like any other language,
but its creation was heavily influenced by C++, Python, and JavaScript.
Solidity has a few features similar to these other languages.
It is statically typed,
it supports inheritance and libraries,
and has complex user defined types.
Finally, all this leads towards one major goal of Ethereum,
which is for Ethereum to become a world computer.
Ethereum aims to implement a digital computer that is decentralized globally,
and executes peer-to-peer transactions and contracts.
The blockchain platform and public network
together is termed as the general-purpose world computer.
Ethereum isn't the only blocking attempting to do
this but it was the first and it's still leading the way.
For that reason, we'll be focusing on Ethereum as a platform.
We'll use this to write our own smart contracts using Solidity,
and we'll create applications that become part of this world computer.